Reviewer 1 of ROMAN 2021 submission 24

Comments to the author
======================

In this work, the authors present a method for multi-view
3d object recognition and pose estimation. In a first step,
a neural networks predicts the most informative views of an
object from a voxelization of the object mesh. This network
is trained to predict the entropy of an specific viewpoint.
The most informative viewpoints of an object are then
rendered as images and fed to a second network that
predicts class label and discrete pose label. The different
viewpoints are separately fed to the network and combined
using majority vote in a post-processing step. Finally, the
authors show results on the synthetic ModelNet10 dataset
for object recognition and pose estimation.

Overall, the writing style is good, the structure is clear,
and the language is properly used. Several images
illustrate the approach.

The abstract and introduction starts very promising and
addresses important problems in the field of robotics.
Unfortunately, the results and technical approach does not
meet these expectations.
Most problematic is the lack of novelty, and
inconsistencies of the different parts put together.
First of all, the viewpoint network predicts the entropy,
so why exactly is a network needed when the entropy can be
calculated from the image directly using mathematical
formulas without prediction errors? The 3D Conv Nets are
known to be computationally expensive, so making a point on
efficiency needs to be proven. Further, from Fig. 1 it is
evident that the entropy prediction network requires an
input mesh/voxel of an object, but which mesh/voxel is fed
to the network, if the object is not known at this point
and only predicted at a later stage? Also, since the
problem definition is to jointly estimate the object class
and the pose, it needs to be shown that the image entropy
solely is sufficient for the best view prediction and not
using a metric that best separates the different classes
and poses.
This brings me to another major shortcoming, which is the
lack of comparison to other works (baselines). The authors
only present self-comparisons, and only on synthetic
datasets with no real-world data, which makes it hard to
judge the performance with respect to other works.

More details on major issues are:
- Sec. III.A: The authors state that "projected views [...]
are computational expensive" but later the authors do
exactly that. "[...] we took images from 60 positions,
regularly distributed [...]", and also require these
renderings in Sec. IV.A in an extensive scale.
- Eq. 2: The argmax operator only gives a single value, but
what are the indices $_v$ supposed to indicate? Why is the
argument of the argmax operator an equation? From calculus
viewpoint, the derivative of a function is equal to 0 at
the maximum, but this does not work together with the
argmax here.
- Sec. III.A: Why are linear activation used for the output
of the network? The entropy is constrained to positive
values, so these fact could be used directly in the network
design by using a sigmoid, or relu output activation.
- Fig. 4: Consider using a log-scaled y-axis for better
visualization. What are the final errors? What do the red
and blue line depict?
- Sec. IV.A: For generating the training data for the
viewpoint prediction network, the authors render the object
mesh as depth image and voxelize the mesh in a unit cube.
Why exactly do is a rendering required here? Also, Fig. 1
shows the full mesh as input.
- Sec. IV: The authors only use a predefined discrete set
of viewpoints. What happens when the network sees an object
from a novel viewpoint that was not seen during training?
- Sec. IV: How does the accuracy of the method depend on
the number of views? So what is the pose accuracy with only
the best view vs the used peak detection algorithm vs using
top-K views vs N random views?

Minor issues:
- Sec. I: The last paragraph is wordy.
- Sec. II: The second paragraph is wordy and lacks any
references to the defined separation of the field.
- Fig. I: "for as many CNNs" needs improved formulation
- Sec. II: "the earliest work would be" does not sound
definite, is it the earliest work?
- Sec. II: "VoxNet designed to" grammar
- References are not in a canonical format. Also, consider
citing the proper publications and not arXiv.